Research

Marijuana

Description of drug - Marijuana is an addictive drug commonly referred to as weed or pot. Marijuana is a mixture of dried Cannabis sativa flowers. Marijuana is consumed normally by smoking. The main psychoactive chemical in marijuana is THC.

Causes of the disorder - Marijuana abuse can be caused by many factors including a family history of substance abuse, pre-existing mental health conditions, easy access to marijuana, early exposure to marijuana use, peer pressure, and a lack of appropriate coping skills.

How it is diagnosed - Marijuana abuse can be diagnosed by identifying warning signs or symptoms of marijuana abuse and reporting them to the proper people.

Typical Symptoms - Typical symptoms of marijuana consumption are bloodshot eyes, increased appetite, lack of motivation, weight gain, nervousness or paranoia, impaired coordination, slowed reaction time, dry mouth, memory impairment, anxiety, impaired judgment, distorted perception, relaxed state, tiredness, and feeling high or euphoric.

Who is usually affected by the drug - Often people who are addicted to marijuana have friends who do marijuana, have relatives who struggled with substance abuse, or have no healthy coping mechanisms.

What is the outlook for a person who is on this drug - Marijuana addiction could lead to death through an accident caused because the person was high or could or from an overdose. The person who is addicted could also get help and recover from their addiction. There is a 1 in 10 chance that a person gets addicted to marijuana but if they started with it before they were 18 the chances of getting addicted rise to 1 in 6.

What type of treatment is recommended - Someone who is addicted to marijuana should seek help from a medical professional or a therapist. This can allow them to be assisted in staying clean off marijuana and getting a substitute to help with withdrawal.


Multiple Sclerosis

Description of the disease/disorder - Multiple Sclerosis also known as MS is considered an autoimmune disease. Multiple Sclerosis results in the body’s immune system attacking the brain, optic nerve, and spinal cords nerve cell’s myelin sheath.

Causes of the disorder - There is no known cause of Multiple Sclerosis.

How it is diagnosed - There is no specific way to diagnose Multiple Sclerosis so doctors have to rule out other conditions that can produce similar signs and symptoms. This process is known as a differential diagnosis. Some diagnoses that may be used to identify MS are blood tests, spinal taps, MRI’s, and evoked potential tests.

Typical Symptoms - Multiple Sclerosis has many symptoms, some more common than others. Some of these symptoms include, double Vision, fatigue, numbness and tingling, muscle spasms, stiffness, and weakness, mobility issues, generalized pain, bladder and bowel problems, difficulty swallowing and speaking, depression and anxiety, etc. Most people who have multiple sclerosis will only experience a few of these symptoms.

Who is usually affected by the disorder - Multiple Sclerosis can occur at any age but you are most likely to show signs around 20 and 40 years of age. Women are also 2-3 times as likely to have relapsing MS.

What is the outlook for a person who is suffering from this disorder - Multiple Sclerosis is rarely fatal but you can get serious complications from a severe case of MS. The average life expectancy for people with MS is around 5 to 10 years lower than average but this gap appears to keep getting smaller. 

What type of treatment is recommended - There is no cure to multiple sclerosis so the treatment focuses on allowing the patient to quickly recover from attacks, slowing the disease's progression, and managing the symptoms. If the symptoms are mild, treatment may not be necessary.







Wernicke's Aphasia (Can Add Broca’s Aphasia if i cant find enough information)

Description of the disease/disorder - The main characteristic of Wernicke's aphasia is impaired language comprehension.

Causes of the disorder - Wernicke’s aphasia is caused by brain damage usually on the left side. This is often caused by a loss of blood flow due to a stroke. The most common way to get Wernicke’s aphasia is from an ischemic stroke which affects the posterior temporal lobe of the dominant hemisphere.

How it is diagnosed - Wernicke’s aphasia is typically diagnosed through brain imaging tests like MRI or CT scan, this helps the doctor determine if other parts of the brain were also damaged.

Typical Symptoms - Typical symptoms of Wernicke’s aphasia include stringing words together to form nonsense sentences, making up words, me unaware of mistakes in their speech, having difficulty repeating phrases, adding words when trying to repeat someone, and interrupting others and speaking rapidly. Victims of Wernicke’s aphasia may also have severely impared reading and writing ability, understanding visual material better than written or spoken words, and they may maintain cognitive abilities other than those associated with language.

Who is usually affected by the disorder - Wernicke’s aphasia commonly affects those who have frequent strokes.

What is the outlook for a person who is suffering from this disorder - Someone who is suffering from wernicke’s aphasia can recover with the proper treatment and speech therapy to regain what they lost.

What type of treatment is recommended - While Wernicke’s aphasia has no standard treatment it can be cured or partly cured through speech therapy.

